# 12-1-2024
I had my dad look at a list of the data categories we have, and he helped me figure out a better way to organize them. I am going to use his input to come up with a better method of organizing the data. I ran a bunch of computations last night to determine the correlation of the columns, but I could only do the columns with numeric values. There are several interesting combinations that we should make note of in determining how to weigh the columns in our model's predictions. I had a few ideas to make the data more useful:
- There is an "events" column, which gives the result of the pitch, such as "ground_ball", "line_drive", and so on. There is also a column (I forget which one) that categorizes each pitch as a ball (B), strike (S), or in-play (X). For balls and strikes, the events column is blank. Perhaps we could incorporate the balls and strikes stuff into the events column, remove the dedicated column for B/S/X, and assign each unique value of the events column to an index.
- For the game_date column, we could remove the hyphens between the parts of the date, make the value in the column a single number, and use that as an index. We have to make sure that "20240924" is not interpreted as a measurement or something.
- For the types of pitches, we need to create an index. Pandas tells me that there are 17 unique values in the "pitch_type" column.
- For the teams, we need some kind of index. I don't think that the teams are important for predicting the outcomes of games, given how we are predicting by performance. The only reason to include the teams would be to factor win-streaks and losing-streaks into the predictions, but I am not sure when we could actually take that stuff into account.

That is all, for now.
- Daniel Teberian
